hello and welcome to our we are bbc good
food series in which we introduce you to
our team
and our contributors i'm keith kendrick
magazine's editor and i'm delighted to
welcome
chevy ramitar food writer bbc saturday
kitchen regular
and caribbean food supremo as one
newspaper dubbed her
she is a number two and in the opposite
october issue of bbc good food
she shares her recipes for fuss-free
freezer fillers
for the family try saying that when
you've had a drink
i'm impressed that's brilliant shimmy
how are you doing
i'm very well so lovely to meet you
great to meet you as well
so you've written some wonderful
family-friendly freezer head recipes for
good food this month
and as a dad who does all the cooking at
home i found them really useful can you
tell us about um about them
yeah sure i mean they're really much my
um the way i like to write recipes and
cook it's all about color
vibrancy in flavor simplicity which is
very key
and naturally their freezer freezer i'm
trying to repeat you but i can't
they're freeza stashable which is really
great for the midweek angry moments that
all parents and kids face to be honest
it sounds fantastic i mean there's some
really really nice ones in there there's
a
pea and mint fish cakes there's veg
packed cheeseburgers there's
peanut butter rainbow rice sausage and
sweet potato
tray bait like you say there's a big
explosion of colour and that's
really really attractive to young kids
isn't it exactly and not only that but
also it's you know you take something
that's slightly familiar and
give a little twist to it so when you
put down like the the fish cakes
you're like okay fish cakes but whoa
it's monster green you know it's like
small little twists or the rainbow rice
you know
you know it's a rice but then whoa
there's all these bright colors it's
like i find
doing slight twists to similar things
that um familiar things that kids have
really helped them to overcome the
barrier to increase their taste buds and
want to be more
adventurous with their food yeah and
that can be a challenge without a doubt
um so you've got a new book which is ice
kitchen
um filling your freezer to feed your
family
are you gonna keep making me do that i
love it i love a bit of alliteration
but i think i think people can get a
little confused about about frieza's
stuff you know he's like what to freeze
uh how long to freeze it for um you know
how long to defrost it for to be safe
can you
can you share some tips for uh for our
audience yeah for sure i think freezers
have um
long been in the cold um for a pun there
but um
essentially it's it it mystifies people
because we're worried about how to
freeze
the safety elements of it so generally
speaking if you're gonna freeze
something we all know needs to be cool
but i think where we tend to fall into
the trap
of ending up having to throw away these
bags of gray ice
over stuff is because um we don't really
do what i call
freezer filing and essentially that
means that
firstly you need to make sure you have
the right equipment it doesn't need to
be expensive but making sure you have a
resealable freezer bag whether it's
plastic whether you're going eco
um that's the first thing to avoid
freezer burn which is the thing that
makes
freezer food quite insipid in flavor and
um lack its texture
so once you've got rid of the ice
crystals and you've got it nice and
sealed in there so you don't have to
worry about ice crystals the next step
is
making sure you label it labeling is so
important so then you can
distinguish what you've done you know in
the past i've made pizza out of cookie
dough because i haven't labeled it
you know it's things like that which end
up then nobody's gonna eat that so
if you label it um you put in what
you've made when you made it
um and how to reheat it and i say filing
because um
generally speaking i try to get through
my freezer food my freezer stash between
three to six months
um food in the freezer doesn't go off
you're just pressing pulls on its
freshness however
over time um the texture and the quality
may um disintegrate slightly so within
three to six months if you keep
revolving
what you're using it's really the best
way to go about doing it
um i think that's the first thing the
freezer filing once you've got that all
under wraps then you'll be able to go to
your freezer it's accessible
you can see what everything is and then
you're not going to be throwing stuff
away
so that for me is the real key element
of it and also on the freezer filing
when you've when you end up with a
massive pot of leftovers a temptation is
to chuck it all into one big bag
again this is a big no-no because you're
going to end up having a situation where
you defrost it and
you're not necessarily going to eat at
all because it could be for one person
or two people so
always portion things up you know it's
almost safer to have things in portions
of one so you can grab two portions of
it
rather than grab a massive portion of
four and it's only two of you eating and
you end up wasting so
it's about doing small little things
just to make it really easy for you
and for so your freezer is always full
of something that you'll be able to pull
together in moments
um defrosting now this i think is the
key because i think people get really
nervous about the frosting
particularly when it comes to meats
naturally we know that you have to
defrost things
as consistently a temperature as
possible so putting it in the fridge
overnight is
for sure the easiest way to defrost
stuff without having to worry about it
but now you can buy things like a
defrosting tray where you can defrost on
the counter
um 10 times faster than at room
temperature which is obviously
that's a no-no we mustn't defrost at
room temperature but on a defrosting
tray it's absolutely fine
um another quick way to defrost is
actually putting your um
ice your sealable freezer bag of
whatever is frozen
into iced water not hot water and
normally you'd think oh it's hot water
but actually it's iced water because it
keeps it again
a consistent cool temperature because
you just don't want it to
defrost inconsistently because that's
when you're gonna have problems with
bacteria on the outside and it's frozen
on the inside um another thing about
defrosting is actually i don't do much
defrosting at all i actually cook a lot
from frozen
and this scares people but you can do it
you know
you can do it on the hob you start on a
low temperature making short defrosts
and then you whack it up
to then make sure it's bubbling and
boiling and piping hot through or you
can just bung it in the oven as well
and the key again is to make sure
whatever you're eating is piping hot
through
the only reason um the only time i don't
do that is with
big joints of meat or bone-in meats as
well so that's a no-no there
um and another thing to say about um
about
actually i've gone to this point so i've
got so much to say about freezers so
defrosting that's my my key tips on
defrosting the final point i'd say a
good tip for freezer this is probably my
favorite point
is whenever you're cooking anything and
this is the opposite of batch cooking
it's like
taking little bits from what you're
making and stashing your freezer so
having ingredients ready to go
so one of my favorite things to do in
the course of the week is i skim off a
little bit of a sauce so
i'm making a thai curry i skim a few
tablespoons off to fill a couple of ice
cubes
chili again skim off some of the sauce
and then by the end of the week you're
left with this
tray this arsenal of incredible flavored
ice cubes
and what you can do with these so i get
so excited about this what you can do
with these
is you have your vegetables from your
fridge or like fridge foraged
ingredients you know
let's say you've got carrots a bit of
chicken a bit of potato
then taking those ice cube sauces and
just mixing that through so you defrost
it you mix it through
you get this subtle flavoring that can
quickly change so you can make it into a
chili
chicken tray bake a green thai curry
chicken tray bake so it's just clever
ways which you know you probably
ended up throwing out a couple of
tablespoons anyway so just making sure
your freezer is full of those little
elements or having um
chicken strips that have just boneless
chicken that you cut into thin
strips that then you can cook from
frozen because they'll defrost really
quickly
so it's just being clever so it's not at
all about batch cooking which i know
scares people
you don't have to be organized you just
have to be thoughtful when you're
cooking so you don't waste
and also then you always have something
to go to in the middle of a week when
you're just like
kids are pulling out you and whatnot um
yeah so that's like that's probably my
favorite tip
about keeping your fridge it's just like
you know leftover herbs
split it up put it in the ice cube tray
because you will be so
thankful for that in a couple weeks down
the line
brilliant advice chevy brilliant advice
uh thank you for coming on and uh and
joining me it's been a lovely
uh pleasure to chat with you thanks for
contributing to uh good food this month
you can find chevy's recipes in the
october issue of good food
they'll also be going on our website
bbcgoodfood.com
um but that's all from us for for now so
thanks very much for coming along
so much you're absolutely welcome lovely
to speak with you you too
thank you